This file contains information on alleged ethics issues involving PRODIGY.

Jesse Heines

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 

From:	GULL::"seiler@rgb.enet.dec.com" 30-APR-1991 17:21:12.67
To:	mail11:;@enet-gw.pa.dec.com@enet-gw.pa.dec.com (@privacy.dis) 
CC:	
Subj:	Privacy warning about PRODIGY 

The message below announces a formal investigation of the IBM/Sears PRODIGY
service for deceptive trade practices, by the L.A. County District Attorney,
along with details about some very disturbing incidents involving PRODIGY.
In particular, a number of people are claiming that PRODIGY created a file
containing very private data copied from their disks, and then apparently
uploaded it.  The potential for abuse here takes my breath away.  ANYONE, 
anywhere in the world, who has information for the investigators (either 
pro or con), is strongly encouraged to contact the investigators by mail.

Larry Seiler

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 

Prodigy: More of a Prodigy Than We Think? 
By: Linda Houser Rohbough                                    

     The stigma that haunts child prodigies is that they are difficult to get
along with, mischievous and occasionally, just flat dangerous, using innocence
to trick us. I wonder if that label fits Prodigy, Sears and IBM's
telecommunications network?

     Those of you who read my December article know that I was tipped off at
COMDEX to look at a Prodigy file, created when Prodigy is loaded STAGE.DAT. I
was told I would find in that file personal information form my hard disk
unrelated to Prodigy.  As you know, I did find copies of the source code to our
product FastTrack, in STAGE.DAT. The fact that they were there at all gave me
the same feeling of violation as the last time my home was broken into by
burglars.
                                                                          
     I invited you to look at your own STAGE.DAT file, if you're a Prodigy
user, and see if you found anything suspect. Since then I have had numerous
calls with reports of similar finds, everything from private patient medical
information to classified government information.
                                                                          
     The danger is Prodigy is uploading STAGE.DAT and taking a look at your
private business. Why? My guess is marketing research, which is expensive
through legitimate channels, and unwelcomed by you and I.  The question now is:
Is it on purpose, or a mistake?  One caller theorizes that it is a bug. He
looked at STAGE.DAT with a piece of software he wrote to look at the physical
location of data on the hard disk, and found that his STAGE.DAT file allocated
950,272 bytes of disk space for storage.
                                                                          
     Prodigy stored information about the sections viewed frequently and the
data needed to draw those screens in STAGE.DAT. Service would be faster with
information stored on the PC rather then the same information being downloaded
from Prodigy each time.
                                                                          
     That's a viable theory because ASCII evidence of those screens shots can
be found in STAGE.DAT, along with AUTOEXEC.BAT and path information. I am led
to belive that the path and system configuration (in RAM) are diddled with and
then restored to previous settings upon exit. So the theory goes, in allocating
that disk space, Prodigy accidently includes data left after an erasure (As you
know, DOS does not wipe clean the space that deleted files took on the hard
disk, but merely marked the space as vacant in the File Allocation Table.)
                                                                           
     There are a couple of problems with this theory. One is that it assumes
that the space was all allocated at once, meaning all 950,272 bytes were
absorbed at one time.  That simply isn't true.  My STAGE.DAT was 250,000+ bytes
after the first time I used Prodigy. The second assumption is that Prodigy
didn't want the personal information; it was getting it accidently in uploading
and downloading to and from STAGE.DAT. The E-mail controversy with Prodigy
throws doubt upon that. The E-mail controversy started because people were
finding mail they sent with comments about Prodigy or the E-mail, especially
negative ones, didn't ever arrive. Now Prodigy is saying they don't actually
read the mail, they just have the computer scan it for key terms, and delete
those messages because they are responsible for what happens on Prodigy.
                                                                           
     I received a call from someone from another user group who read our
newsletter and is very involved in telecommunications.  He installed and ran
Prodigy on a freshly formatted 3.5 inch 1.44 meg disk. Sure enough, upon
checking STAGE.DAT he discovered personal data from his hard disk that could
not have been left there after an erasure. He had a very difficult time trying
to get someone at Prodigy to talk to about this.
                                                                       
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 

THERE'S A FILE ON THIS BOARD CALLED 'FRAUDIGY.ZIP' THAT I SUGGEST ALL WHO USE
THE PRODIGY SERVICE TAKE ***VERY*** SERIOUSLY.  THE FILE DESCRIBES HOW THE
PRODIGY SERVICE SEEMS TO SCAN YOUR HARD DRIVE FOR PERSONAL INFORMATION, DUMPS
IT INTO A FILE IN THE PRODIGY SUB-DIRECTORY CALLED 'STAGE.DAT' AND WHILE YOU'RE
WAITING AND WAITING FOR THAT NEXT MENU COME UP, THEY'RE UPLOADING YOUR STUFF
AND LOOKING AT IT.

TODAY I WAS IN BABBAGES'S, ECHELON TALKING TO TIM WHEN A GENTLEMAN WALKED IN,
HEARD OUR DISCUSSION, AND PIPED IN THAT HE WAS A COLUMNIST ON PRODIGY. HE SAID
THAT THE INFO FOUND IN 'FRAUDIGY.ZIP' WAS INDEED TRUE AND THAT IF YOU READ YOUR
ON-LINE AGREEMENT CLOSELY, IT SAYS THAT YOU SIGN ALL RIGHTS TO YOUR COMPUTER
AND ITS CONTENTS TO PRODIGY, IBM & SEARS WHEN YOU AGREE TO THE SERVICE.

I TRIED THE TESTS SUGGESTED IN 'FRAUDIGY.ZIP' WITH A VIRGIN 'PRODIGY' KIT.  I
DID TWO INSTALLATIONS, ONE TO MY OFT USED HARD DRIVE PARTITION, AND ONE ONTO A
1.2MB FLOPPY.  ON THE FLOPPY VERSION, UPON INSTALLATION (WITHOUT LOGGING ON), I
FOUND THAT THE FILE 'STAGE.DAT' CONTAINED A LISTING OF EVERY .BAT AND SETUP
FILE CONTAINED IN MY 'C:' DRIVE BOOT DIRECTORY.  USING THE HARD DRIVE DIRECTORY
OF PRODIGY THAT WAS SET UP, I PROCEDED TO LOG ON.  I LOGGED ON, CONSENTED TO
THE AGREEMENT, AND LOGGED OFF. REMEMBER, THIS WAS A VIRGIN SETUP KIT.

AFTER LOGGING OFF I LOOKED AT 'STAGE.DAT' AND 'CACHE.DAT' FOUND IN THE PRODIGY
SUBDIRECTORY.  IN THOSE FILES, I FOUND POINTERS TO PERSONAL NOTES THAT WERE
BURIED THREE SUB-DIRECTORIES DOWN ON MY DRIVE, AND AT THE END OF 'STAGE.DAT'
WAS AN EXACT IMAGE COPY OF MY PC-DESKTOP APPOINTMENTS CALENDER.

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 

Date:    27 Apr 91 19:53:00 GMT
From:    0004133373@mcimail.com (Donald E. Kimberlin)
Subject: Re: Prodigy Questions

     In article (Digest v11, iss303), Arnette P. Baker <ihlpf!kityss@
att.uucp> asks:

> I am looking for information on Prodigy.  I am looking into it because
> my parents just bought a PC and are looking for things to do with it
> ...question I have involves e-mail.

     Prodigy's interpretaion of what constitutes "mail," particularly e-mail,
has been a particular point of discussion.  It seems that from the perspective
of a lot of the public, Prodigy wants to have its cake and eat it too, in that
they CHARGE you for its delivery, and then CENSOR anything they don't like.

     Even the Postal Service doesn't look inside your envelope when you mail
something, even though that may be something objectionable.  We can. of course,
understand an electronic bulletin board's System Operator reserving the right
to delete items not in keeping with the Sysop's policies.

     But Prodigy seems to be trying to go a step further, charging you for more
than a minimal amount of transmission, and heavily censoring what it
transports.  This might sound incredible, but the press report I saw at the
peak of public outrage concerned Prodigy censoring a message in which a coin
collector was asking about "Roosevelt dimes."  When he asked the Prodigy staff
why they deleted his mail, the unbelievably stupid retort was that "pro{oting
personalities is prohibited."  When he pressed about what "personality
promotion" was involved with Roosevelt dimes, the more unbelievably stupid
reason was, "Why, Roosevelt Dimes, the Chicago Bears football player, of
course!"  I have NOT made this story up.  I wish I could recall the publication
source to prove it.

     Incidents like this have caused suficient public outcry that Prodigy is
under investigation, as summed up in the following snippet from <Information
WEEK>, 4/22/91:

                             "FAR FROM A PRODIGY"

     (Network World, April 15, p.4) Prodigy Services Co. is being investigated
for possible criminal or civil violations stemming from its electronic-mail
pricing and bulletin board editing policies.  Users are complaining about the
on-line service's recently established 25-cent price tag for every E-mail
message after the first 30 allowed per month; they claim that Prodigy's policy
pf deleting or editing controversial or obscene' (since when are Roosevelt
dimes either controversial OR obscene?) "messages from bulletin boards violates
the First Amendment.  (DA Probes BBS Practices at Prodigy, by Barton
Crockett)."

     My own opinion is that your parents would be best off to assert one of our
few remaining rights, to just take that Prodigy kit and return it to Sears
before they cancel the famous Sears money-bakc guarantee.  There are plenty of
other places to have both bbs recreation and to use "electronic mail" provided
by responsible parties.  Even MCIMail has a deal where your e-mail (of moderate
length) costs only 25 cents per message, while it reaches a far wider range,
including real business.

     And, oh. Compu$erve's "e-mail" to the outside world is really a port to
MCIMail, so why not just open an MCIMail account and buy it direct, and
cheaper?

     All you need to do to help is to get an easy-to-use comms program for
their Sears-bought PS/1 (I recommend BOYAN as a very easy program for beginners
to use, especially if you install it and enter the dialing directory numbers
for them) and introduce them to the world of REAL bbs-ing. In fact, if you get
onto a commercial e-mail service and request it of our Moderator, he can get
the Digest delivered to DOS, MAC or what-have-you there daily!

[Moderator's Note: This is correct. TELECOM Digest can be (and is!) delivered
to almost every commercial email service in the world.  Copies go to MCI Mail,
ATT Mail, Telemail/Sprint Mail, Compuserve, Portal, and many others including
the Telebox Mail system in Germany.  All you have to do is provide me with a
working path to get there.  PAT]

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 

Date:    26 Apr 91 13:56:00 GMT
From:    CRUZ_A@ccl2.eng.ohio-state.edu
Subject: GEnie Management Acting a la Prodigy Management?

Dear Telecom Readers:

In the {MacWeek}, April 16th, 1991, Volume 5, Number 14 issue, there is a story
about a user lockout in the GEnie on-line service:

A Toronto couple requested an explanation of the online service's recent
lockout of members who disagreed publicly with GEnie management.

Linda Kaplan, a GEnie member for more than five years, had both her internal
account and her paid account discontinued last month in what she described as a
series of personality conflicts and escalating misunderstandings.  She said
that GEnie cancelled accounts not on the basis of rules being broken but just
because someone lost their temper.

Apparently, GEnie officials refused to comment on the matter but said that they
would clarify their policies in the future.

Ms. Kaplan had a paid account but she mainly used a systemwide free account
designed to bring in more users.  She said that some account holders were bound
by the secret agreements forbidding them from criticizing GEnie, its sysops or
executives.  She added that friends who inquired about her absence from forums
or who questioned management's handling of the incident either in on-line
forums or private electronic mail found themselves drawn into the fray.

When another long time user, Peter Pawlyschyn, contacted management and
inquired about his rights on the service, he found himself censored and
harassed.

Other members have said that they were reduced to read-only status or had their
accounts cancelled after simply mentioning Kaplan's name in postings.

Soooooo, here we go again with the issue of censoring certain materials in
large online systems.  Or is it really an issue?
                       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Alex Cruz  Associate, Center for Advanced Study in Telecommunications
Consultant, American Airlines Decision Technologies
